"Higher level section"_Build.html - "LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS
Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

Linking LAMMPS as a library with another code :h3

[Additional requirement for using a shared library:]

The operating system finds shared libraries to load at run-time using
the environment variable LD_LIBRARY_PATH.  So you may wish to copy the
file src/liblammps.so or src/liblammps_g++.so (for example) to a place
the system can find it by default, such as /usr/local/lib, or you may
wish to add the LAMMPS src directory to LD_LIBRARY_PATH, so that the
current version of the shared library is always available to programs
that use it.

For the csh or tcsh shells, you would add something like this to your
~/.cshrc file:

setenv LD_LIBRARY_PATH $\{LD_LIBRARY_PATH\}:/home/sjplimp/lammps/src :pre

Calling the LAMMPS library :h5

Either flavor of library (static or shared) allows one or more LAMMPS
objects to be instantiated from the calling program.

When used from a C++ program, all of LAMMPS is wrapped in a LAMMPS_NS
namespace; you can safely use any of its classes and methods from
within the calling code, as needed.

When used from a C or Fortran program or a scripting language like
Python, the library has a simple function-style interface, provided in
src/library.cpp and src/library.h.

See the sample codes in examples/COUPLE/simple for examples of C++ and
C and Fortran codes that invoke LAMMPS thru its library interface.
There are other examples as well in the COUPLE directory which are
discussed in "Section 6.10"_Section_howto.html#howto_10 of the
manual.  See "Section 11"_Section_python.html of the manual for a
description of the Python wrapper provided with LAMMPS that operates
through the LAMMPS library interface.

The files src/library.cpp and library.h define the C-style API for
using LAMMPS as a library.  See "Section
6.19"_Section_howto.html#howto_19 of the manual for a description of the
interface and how to extend it for your needs.
