"Higher level section"_Build.html - "LAMMPS WWW Site"_lws - "LAMMPS
Documentation"_ld - "LAMMPS Commands"_lc :c

:link(lws,http://lammps.sandia.gov)
:link(ld,Manual.html)
:link(lc,Section_commands.html#comm)

:line

Packages that require provdied libraries :h3

A few of the standard and user packages require extra libraries.  See
"Section 4"_Section_packages.html for two tables of packages which
indicate which ones require libraries.  For each such package, the
Section 4 doc page gives details on how to build the extra library,
including how to download it if necessary.  The basic ideas are
summarized here.

[System libraries:]

Packages in the tables "Section 4"_Section_packages.html with a "sys"
in the last column link to system libraries that typically already
exist on your machine.  E.g. the python package links to a system
Python library.  If your machine does not have the required library,
you will have to download and install it on your machine, in either
the system or user space.

[Internal libraries:]

Packages in the tables "Section 4"_Section_packages.html with an "int"
in the last column link to internal libraries whose source code is
included with LAMMPS, in the lib/name directory where name is the
package name.  You must first build the library in that directory
before building LAMMPS with that package installed.  E.g. the gpu
package links to a library you build in the lib/gpu dir.  You can
often do the build in one step by typing "make lib-name args=..."
from the src dir, with appropriate arguments.  You can leave off the
args to see a help message.  See "Section 4"_Section_packages.html for
details for each package.
